You just learned about auto scaling, and we've also scaling.
We end up with lots of different instances of the same application.
So there's a question how do we direct traffic to them?
So what I mean is, let's say in our cloud, we have these free web servers running the Engine X web
service and on the internet.
We have some users and they want to connect to our application.
Now they can connect to any one of these because they're all identical.
But how do they do that?
How do they know where to go?
Now, what we really want to do is spread the load between our instances.
So we have something called a load balancer and the load balancer has an address and the user's computers
will then connect to the load balancer address.
So, for instance, each one will connect two example dot com.
That's the address associated with this load balancer, and the load balance will forward the connection
on to one of the web servers.
When another user connects, it sends the connection to another web server and so on.
So that's how we distribute the load.
We have one end point address which is publicly available, and then we're able to distribute the connections
to multiple instances and they can be in multiple availability zones.
Now, if an instance fails, the load balancer will also reroute the connection.
So now we have a connection going to web server to for use of one instead of web server one.
So this is how we enable high availability now as well as high availability.
You might have heard of fault tolerance.
Fault tolerance is where we have the ability to recover in the case of something like a component failure.
So here's a computer that has CPU memory, hard disk drive, a network card and the network has just
failed.
Then maybe a hard drive fails.
Now, even one of these will cause an outage of the system because this system doesn't have any built
in redundancy.
Now, another way we could do this is to have multiple hard drives and multiple network interface cards.
And in that case, if we lose one of either of those components, it's OK because we have fault tolerance
in the system and we're able to continue to operate.
Now we can mix these things together.
So IWC provides a lot of fault tolerance built in to their infrastructure, and we're able to spread
the load between different availability zones so that we have fault tolerance across the availability
zones because each one is one or more data centers, so they're physically distinct from each other.
And then we can spread the load for high availability to make sure that all users are constantly connected
to working instances of our application.
Now you should think of the availability zone as a separate data center.
As I said, they are actually composed of one or more data centers, so remember that for the exam,
but they're physically distinct from other availability zones and have high speed connectivity between
them.
Now again, in this instance, we can still have things like a web server failing, and if that happens,
the connection gets dropped and rerouted to another web server.
If we add in also scaling as well, then we get an even better solution because that failed web server
can now actually be replaced by also scaling.
So we regularly use auto scaling and load balancing together to make sure that we have the right number
of EC2 instances that we can recover from failure and that we can direct the incoming connections across
all of our instances.
And in this case, User two ends up on web server four.
Now, of course, we get a lot of resiliency here.
Also at the availability zone level.
So even if we lost an entire availability zone, it can happen.
Sometimes connectivity to an agency might fail.
But if you have your resources deployed across multiple availability zones, you're still operational
and you can launch more instances into that AC to make sure you've got enough capacity.
So now again, our connections are remounted.
So those are the concepts around high availability and fault tolerance and how we use load balancing
and also scaling together.
And in the next lesson, we're going to look at the Amazon Elastic Load balancing service.